# RSA-Cryptography-Project
This RSA cryptography project was for my Discrete Structures course at CU Boulder.
## Background
This program allows you to use RSA - a type of public key cryptography - to privately communicate by encrypting and decrypting messages. With RSA, prime numbers are the foundation to the variety of algorithms involved in its underlying functions. First, are the two functions essential to fast modular exponentiation - better known as FME. The first of the two is dec_to_bin(), which converts a decimal number into binary and is used in the FME process. The second is the fme() function for the FME process, which is arguably the most important function in RSA, as it is used to both encrypt and decrypt messages. Second, come the key generation functions. Key generation is largely based on the euclidean algorithm, which is the first of four functions - gce(). This function finds the greatest common divisor, which is later used in finding a public key. The second of the four is the extended euclidean algorithm, which is essential to finding the private key. Subsequently, the last two function are for finding the public and private keys. But before anything, the find_pub_key_e() function leverages the generate_prime() function to generate two prime numbers with a product that is greater than 126 (this will be explained in more detail later). Once the find_pub_key_e() function has acquired its prime numbers, it can operate and generate the public key.

Once we have our public and private keys, we can begin encryption and decryption, which first requires two functions for converting text to ASCII integers and converting ASCII integers into text. These two functions are known as convert_text(), which takes in a string, and convert_num(), which takes in a list of integers. convert_text() is the initial step for encrypting the message in the encode() function. Once text is converted to ASCII, the encode() function leverages fme() to take each ASCII integer and run it through the fme() function, encrypting the message into cipher. The decode() function on the other hand, takes in cipher and iterates through each integer in the list using fme() to decrypt the message.
